hey guys this is not the most serious
video ever recorded I used to record
this type of material monologues with my
life or real life updates as podcasts as
opposed to videos but these days because
my upload speed has been fabulous here
in China and because i've been recording
sitting at my desk most of the real life
updates have been videos but if you're a
patreon subscriber you can also download
them as an mp3 as a you know in a
portable podcast only format one of the
one of the fun things I do actually have
a portable audio recorder also so a
couple of times i have actually recorded
my podcasts while i was in the airport
while I was walking somewhere tomorrow I
could record a podcast while I'm at the
Museum I should go in the museum so
actually one of the reasons why some
material is podcast only with no video
is that I'm actually not at home when i
recorded you guys know i have a mobile
camera also so there's a little bit of
variety in there but this is a this is a
real life update podcast with video if
you want to see the video and i'm also
live streaming while i do it so guys I
do see some people just made some funny
jokes in the last 10 seconds actually I
can see and respond to comments from
viewers while I'm recording this live so
we'll see how far can I get in this
video without mentioning veganism but
this is not primarily Avia's not
primarily about politics this is
primarily but my real life and this is
being recorded at an interesting moment
in my real life because I'm now packing
up to leave kunming so my life you're in
kunming as I've known it is coming to an
end and some of you become very familiar
with the view of this bed in the back
and well it's not it's not forever
people the view the you know the bed the
wall the the slightly off-white you know
oh you have the view of my rice cooker
here i'll switch let's switch the camera
let's have a let's have a one last
goodbye to the rice cooker no oh you
can't really see it that well back there
anyway the books you notice the books
move around i've been using the books
people anyway um
you know the rhythm of my life here in
Quinn man which is not a rhythm I could
ever really get used to is is coming to
it and so just as you'll say well I've
got a couple of things I want to cover
here but you know I wrote a letter in
Chinese handwritten Chinese which is
very time consuming the Chinese
themselves very rarely write letters in
Chinese but you know I wrote a letter in
Chinese to the staff at my gym now if
you've really been following me on
youtube and & in the podcast and so on
you will know there was a time a few
months ago when I had a really serious
crush on one of the gym employees and my
impression was that she was interested
me to not going to say too much about
that I guess I'm going to refer to as
the short woman at the gym or the short
girl with gym because it's possible i'm
also going to mention some tall women in
this in this monologue um but you know i
wrote this letter today as it's not
personal in any way it's not it's not
coming on to her and it's not sexy but i
decided to write this letter for a
couple of reasons for one thing it is a
letter of thanks and the letter closes
the last thing in the letter is that it
says during this time in my life which i
just said it's coming to a close now
during this kind of special time in my
life when i was a student learning
chinese in could ming the only joy in my
life was coming to your gym now
obviously that would be a bit maudlin if
it was the first thing i said in the
letter but it's the last thing that's at
the letter closes so doesn't sound too
bad cameras at a focus guys sorry if you
see me moving my hand like this its try
to get the camera to come back into
focus sometimes focuses on the mic
sometimes it focuses on my face and text
support here at a ballet CL Broadcasting
Corporation it's slightly less than
perfect anyway so it is a letter of
thanks a sincere letter of thanks to
them and they say it closes by saying
look during this special time in my life
you know uh-huh during the letter it
mentions also you know the only exercise
i had was working out at your gym the
rest time i was sitting at my desk using
my computer studying Chinese hitting the
books so really you know the one kind of
joy in my life was coming your gym and
it's thanking them for that the letter
also goes over because that Jim does
collect testimonials from their clients
so when I say testimonials you know
people say they lost 20 pounds or they
achieve their goals or whatever the hell
it is so I go over in that hand written
letter in Chinese um you know what
changed in my weight and what my routine
is now so I now do regularly bench press
more than I way partly because my weight
declined so I mean today I was very
casually bench pressing ninety five
kilograms I could have I could have been
bench pressing 100 kilograms but today I
didn't push it cuz yesterday I worked it
really heavy not worth digressing but
you know so I said well you know my
weight dropped I used to be over a
hundred kilograms now I'm down to maybe
92 or 93 actually and you know this is
how much a bench press and this is you
know I do so many pushups per day so it
covered that kind of stuff but then as
you know veganism is also covert a
propaganda for veganism you know I got
in there I said look maybe you already
know this about me because a lot of
people Jim do know this about me so
maybe already knows about this movie
don't but I'm vegan and I know that a
lot of people here in China believe that
you can't maintain your strength that
you'll lose your strength if you stop
eating meat and I no meat no dairy no
eggs etc and you know I want you to know
that you know I've you know maintain
this level of strength um you know with
with with no no animal products in my
diet so I said yeah obviously in some
ways this is an intellectual exercise
for me it's a way to practice your
chinese but in some ways also is
sincerely thanking them for the role
that's Jim played in my life and it's
and it's vegan propaganda and it's a
testimonial that they'll use so jumping
ahead they told me that we're going to
use it too so I'm not sure I'm not sure
if we can use the text but I took this
and I provided them with two photographs
photographs the most you guys already
seen photographs with me shirtless pics
where I'm you know I'm showing the shape
that I'm in currently the current pics
of me showing the the shape of men at
age 38 this is
out what I imagined my life would be
like at age 38 back when I was 28 I
didn't think this is one my life like a
30 day back when i was 18 i dinnae with
this bill my life it was like a 38 not
at all it's not I didn't think of myself
as an athletic person and I still don't
I'm not I don't think of myself in this
letter as an athlete or isn't a photo
person life gets unpredictable if you
let it um anyway uh so I had to go to a
print shop this story involves a few
different themes I had to go to a print
shop and print out these photographs
myself the photographs of me with my
shirt off and I took also photographed
my daughter to get printed on paper
because the photograph that I had a fur
that was only on my computer and didn't
have on paper so I go to a photo
printing place um now you know don't
worry this story comes back to the gym
and comes back to a lot of other thumb
attic issues in my life as I'm now
packing up to leave packing to leave
conveying i have made videos talking
about what i like about Chinese culture
what I appreciate about Chinese culture
several but I remember one more that's
really the title they're all kinds of
things i can say i really i really
positively appreciate with chinese
culture we got went into the photoshop
and even though it's a small thing so
you know you pay the money and you
weight it takes time i had to go i had
to go to the photoshop go back to my
school and come back again and then even
when I came back I still to wait longer
and just through careless carelessness
and indifference they got it wrong you
know the the photos were printed out in
a way where they just didn't pay
attention they didn't take the one
second to check so the edges like the
edge of my face was cut off the edge of
my arms was cut off and the picture of
my daughter you know it didn't look
quite right and you know I just said to
them look I'm sorry this is not good
enough you're gonna have to them again
this is speaking Chinese take great
language practice and you know when I
walked out there it's no big deal i did
do it again they didn't fight me on it
they didn't yell at me or anything which
they can
in China they can do that to you they
can scream you that the photos are good
enough and get the hell out or whatever
so they did they did print them out so I
had to go back to my school and make
another trip back but you know I walked
out I really felt awful and you know and
reflecting on why I knew exactly why
it's not just the photographs and it's
not just that some of the photographs
are photographs of my daughter you know
which obviously is there is an emotional
connection there there's an emotional
component of that um it's just reminding
you of an aspect of Chinese culture that
is so depressing and you don't want to
deal with and it's forcing you to face
up to it you know I mean I had a job
lined up here most you guys don't know
this story before this job in in the
Hong was lined up so the job I'm
starting now is it a totally different
University I had a job lined up here
contract signed a hundred percent
certain one hundred percent committed
job lined up here and the reason given
for why this one woman who was not a
senior executive a woman who was really
like a secretary a minor functionary was
she threw a tantrum and in effect got me
fired got the job eliminated before the
job started was that she was so offended
that when she asked me what hospital
would you go to here in China if you got
seriously ill my answer was I would buy
an airplane ticket to Thailand I would
not go to a hospital here in China it's
that's the truth if I had a serious
illness or a serious problem I would fly
to Chiang Mai or Bangkok and you know go
to the hospital now allegedly her her
nationalism her sense of national pride
in China was offended by this and long
story short this cost me the job now the
long story is way more entertaining this
woman was insane anyway and several
people including my own teacher because
I had to bring my chinese teacher into
the negotiations to translate because
this is all happening in fluent Chinese
several people thought that this one
part of the reason she was so crazy that
me
in earlier stage he had a crush on me
and there was evidence of that because
over a couple of months um what she said
other people about me and how excited
she was to meet me and there was some
weird stuff going on but she was she was
weird period I mean this woman there
were a lot of signs that she had apart
from what that she had a crush on me she
was trouble no matter how you look at it
um anyway the first time I met her when
I showed up on the University campus she
was screaming at me for no good reason
like as she walked toward me across the
courtyard of this university campus she
was screaming me I said you're in
totally calm and self-confidence re you
can't talk to me that way I'm a
professor at this university you are
going to talk to me as a professor you
know I said it like that it was not loud
it was quiet but it was firm and she was
she thought she was just going to
continue screaming at me like as we
walked back to the office I'm not
walking I'm said you know what I'm sorry
you not gonna talk to me this way okay
I'm an employee here you know you have
to talk to me with dignity as another
employee you know you can't scream at me
like that Padma hilariously that was not
what cost me the job it was this issue
of the it was this issue at the hospital
now this links back to the story I'm in
the midst of the same attitude you hand
someone you know a set of photographs to
print that's their whole job their job
is to take those photographs and spend
five seconds on the computer and get
them lined up properly and print them
out and they don't do that and they
don't care and you know that the only
way for you to get them to do that job
is preferably speaking fluent Chinese
for you to stand over their shoulder and
yell at them at every stage of
them doing that job even though that is
their job they work in the photoshop and
this is the digital era all they're
doing you know it's it's
just like printing out a page of text
from a computer they're just a couple of
options you've gotta you know check to
make sure that the photograph is
correctly going to be printed than you
print it you know compared to what photo
developing was 50 years ago you know
this is incredibly incredibly simple
stuff um and it's the same thing when
your life is on the line at a hospital
at same attitude it's terrifying if you
don't have someone there to watch what
the nurse is doing like a hawk to to
yell at them at every stage to check and
double-check is that the right medicine
are you doing the right thing why are
you doing that now and not later you
know what's the delay why is this
happening it's it's a kind of horrifying
aspect of Chinese life of life in china
and I can I can still recognize that
horror even when it's in something
relatively low pressure like printing
out photographs as opposed to something
tremendously high pressure as opposed to
saying where you really rely on other
people's confidence like you know what's
what's going on in hospital and of
course my experience with that
administrator in that particular
University at very much Foles under the
same heading like what was her job what
was I relying on her to do she was on
the day when she freaked out and cost me
the job she was screaming at me all she
had to do was meet me in front of the
university or meet me in the courtyard
at the front of the university walk with
me to the office and then physically
handle the paperwork I was her whole job
didn't require any thought to inquire
any intelligence quiet extremely little
confidence she I had brought my
paperwork she already had her paperwork
she had to physically put the papers
together in order receiving the papers I
gave her that was it the contract was
signed the commitment
was there for the job and all this stuff
everything was done decisions were made
by the executives people many levels
above her and you know anyway I did get
those photos printed out and I did have
this meditation on some of the aspects
of Chinese culture I really don't like
and that really can be terrifying I am
reading your comments as i go here guys
I just I don't know the joke about doing
the mannequin challenge I don't know if
it's worth replying to to all these
confident sets that go here so I printed
these photos out my shirtless selfie
photos to be blunt and I combined them
with this letter this letter of thanks
that I've written to the to the gym you
know and then I went to the gym and I
did work out at the gym that's not the
part of the story I'm going to tell
though so I'm in this gym I've been
going to this gym every day for what
five months now it's been a long time
five months six months it's been a long
time going to gym so I'm known and I
know all the staff and I've noticed some
staff have left and new staff but hired
that's enough time at a gym that you see
that kind of thing and it's funny it's
just ironic so I know I'm going to talk
to this woman whom I formerly had a
crush on and that also i mean it's funny
you can learn a lot from these
interactions even when nobody's teaching
anything so this is the same woman for
those of you have been really watching
every video or listen to every podcast
this is the same woman who was mentioned
in my very casual and enjoyable
conversation with American unicorn so if
you search for the name American unicorn
she was another vegan youtuber and we
kicked off that conversation with uh
talking about I you know she spends a
lot of time at the gym and I was talking
about my gym romance my question the son
of the gym and that spawned a few
memorable quotations some people still
make fun of me because in reference to
this particular woman I said look I have
crushin this woman of course she's not
vegan um you know I asked myself if she
told me that as her part-time job she
goes to a slaughterhouse and uh you know
slits the throats of cattle for kicks or
something would I be hopeful that lose
interest in her so there was some there
was some memorable joking around in
reference to do i know i'm gonna go in
i'm going to talk to her and give her
this letter which again is not anyway
personal it's not anyway hitting on her
what have you and I have which is also
interesting i have in fact lost interest
in her so there's a there's a question
here someone asks or their hot chicks at
your gym yes and i've referenced that in
a sense negatively in many discussions
about veganism I mean there's not a
single person in my gym that that's
vegan and you know we have all kinds of
amazing most people other if you go to a
gym I don't know unless you live in okay
I'm not even gonna say I was gonna say
unless you live in Scotland but it's
some of my best friends are Scottish
let's stop hating on the Scottish here
but no I mean most places in the world
they're going to be good looking people
in your gym and all that meat meat every
day and there's some of them are very
slim and something very muscular and
some of them are other shapes and sizes
but no vegg gray says that was a
fleeting fresh no it really wasn't
because that was a couple months long
and i'm just going to comment now on on
why that was that i might as well say in
response to this question you know one
of the things that really got to me so
that woman had a crush on she's not the
best looking woman at the gym and
better-looking women that Jim flirted
with me and really hit on me and some of
them really tried to initiate
relationships to me there were a lot of
good Lingam there and a lot of them paid
attention to me um one way or another
struck up conversation being what have
you but one of the things about this
particular woman I think I'm call her
this short woman at the gym one of the
things that really really got to me was
seeing her playing with children so it's
not part of her job but she seems to be
the kind of person who's great with kids
and likes playing with kids and friends
of hers would go to the gym it seems to
be friends or friends of friends I you
know obviously don't know the whole
story
I would ask her to play with their kids
while they worked out and uh you know
some of those kids were toddlers were
young children but um you know one of
them was really more of an infant and
she had she'd obviously done this enough
she had learned different funny ways to
kind of modify the gym equipment to uh
you know to like make a little swing and
put the baby in a swing and swing the
baby back and forth so maybe they're you
know they're two tethers that are
supposed to be used for some kind of
yoga or some kind of exercise but she
figured out little ways to make make fun
things for kids out of the gym equipment
and you know it was just once you know I
remember I was bending down to tie up my
shoe and I saw her playing with this you
know with his baby with his infant it
wasn't at all it was really a young kid
and wow that really that really got to
me so I'm sure she's a woman who has
many redeeming qualities but the good
with kids thing that really got to me so
we got a bunch of fun questions here for
me to respond to enriching this podcast
I helped not Curtis asks do they play
awful music in Chinese gyms my gym plays
a lot of mmm believe it or not so that's
the white American rapper Eminem they
play a lot of mmm I don't know why you
tell me um I use I use headphones I
listen to my own stuff so uh we had
another question here from km be asking
is there anywhere that you go where
women don't hit on you um well why'd you
keep listening I mean you know the other
thing is a lot so when you're talking
about conventionally good-looking women
here in China they really expect men to
initiate they most the lake of a woman
is conventionally good-looking here she
expects that if she opens the door an
inch a man is going to run up and kick
the door down like a man is going to
open it the rest of the way
so I have an example that was part of
the part of the story I was going to
tell here so when I showed up to give
this letter to this woman who I used to
have a crush on and again it's not in
some ways it's not a shallow crush
because you know the the kid thing got
to me the you know seeing her playing
with kids there were other things that
really really made that an unusually
kind of durable and deep crush although
it's just a crush um you know um I
showed up at the gym today and there was
there was a new employee there was a new
girl working there now pretty much all
the employees of the gym are somewhere
between good-looking and extremely
good-looking I mean that's who gets
hired at this gym um but was this is
very strange because I go to the gym
every day for this girl it's either her
first day at the gym or it could be her
second or third day but I'm there so
often I'm really really strange so some
of you are trying don't anticipate that
moral of the story here people come on
so anyway show up I've never seen this
girl before so she's definitely new it's
quite possibly her first day on the job
another reason why I think it might be
your first day is that you know there
was this other girl who I called the
tall woman so the short woman in tolman
tolman I did not have a crush on but
there was this woman the tall woman who
really tried to initiate a relationship
with me at one point and I saw the way
her boss and her co-workers reacted to
that because the tall woman she had
tried a couple of times to initiate with
me and it's not worth telling the whole
story for different reasons it didn't go
anywhere and then one day at the gym in
front of other employees like other
employees they weren't standing right
next to us but they were within the they
were within eyeshot know they could see
we were talking I'm sure they could hear
to some extent the nature of the
conversation um this girl really later
cards on the table and again this stuff
is very very culturally-specific but um
you know she asked a bunch of questions
so I mean again this is good this is
just one example this is one example but
this is totally sensible I don't I don't
resent Chinese women for asking this
question if a Chinese woman is really
interesting you she is gonna ask quite
close to the start of the conversation
where she's initiating she's going to
ask do you have a girlfriend and then
she's going to fold that app one way or
another but asking do you have a
girlfriend back in Canada do you have a
girlfriend in Beijing like you know
because a lot of guys a lot of girls
also if you ask them do you have a
girlfriend or do you have a boyfriend
they will interpret that to mean do you
have a girlfriend right here right now
like you have a girlfriend within five
kilometers or within 500 meters like oh
yeah I'm single today like I'm like
uh-huh I've I'm single with in a
five-kilometer radius if we're having
this conversation so they will ask one
way or another they will ask do you have
a girlfriend and then do you have a
girlfriend waiting for you back in
Canada or waiting in Shanghai or waiting
in Beijing or somewhere else so again
and it's funny because when she got to
that part and again it's not just how
she had is not just it's not the fact
that she asked it's also the way that
she's asking right if you really
understand Chinese culture it's it's
very clear that she's she's initiating
relationship and I remember when she did
that you know I I knew what's up I
understand Chinese culture enough terms
the facial expressions and all these
kind of funny nuances but the other
employees who were watching they they
kind of stood up disapprovingly and they
actually interrupted they said you were
hey stop you have to go do something
like in the gym which she did of course
they have nothing to do like the
employees at the gym in the morning they
opened the place up at night they have
to close it down but for hours and hours
they're standing around doing nothing
the eat-off you know no offense but they
they have a few little jobs but they're
not
they're not busy but anyway I remember
there was the attitude of the other the
other Beatles will break it up so I
think they disapprove of the employees
hitting on you know hitting on the
customers I have no idea what they think
about customers pending on the employees
I never asked but it was a funny and
telling little little example but anyway
so I show up to deliver this letter to
the short one totally different woman
from the tollon and there happens to be
a new member of staff there and this new
member of staff so the geometry of the
gym is a bit weird but I'm walking past
her than a kind of long trajectory to
get from one piece of equipment to the
other and um she's looking straight up
at me and smiling with a really big
bright smile she's beautiful but I mean
like I said pretty much everyone at this
gym it's beautiful um and she's smiling
and looking straight straight my eyes
and then she starts laughing also in
this you know very feminine laughs now
I'm gonna distribute this is 2016 if
somebody is laughing for no reason in
2016 I assume either they just read
something funny on their phone or like
even though she didn't have headphones
like they're listening to something like
if you see someone laughing for no
reason I assume there's some technology
you know they can be watching a movie or
something you know what I mean I don't
care and also I'm there to work out I
got a lot of the things in my mind like
I don't really care but it was the
funniest thing so this the new girl I'm
walking past her and she's looking
straight at me she's looking them eyes
fine I I'm walking from one piece of gym
equipment to the other and you know as
it becomes clear I'm just gonna walk
right past her with a toddler her whole
expression changes and it stops being
inviting something come hither she's
actually shocked that I'm not talking up
she's shocked that I didn't it she comes
if I mean is what I want it what at the
end of this is one clue that this is
part of the kind of this is part of the
madness of middle age you get really
into in middle age you get really into
the subtlety of how much is expressed
through the eyes and facial expressions
you know I think a lot of modern
American filmmaking is like that you
know the last season of Game and throw
game of thrones to come out 2016 season
you know people were freaking out over
these scenes where nobody says anything
Jamie looks at Cersei and we're all
supposed to interpret the expression on
its face interpret the look in his eyes
you know that's what a lot of people get
into it's a really weird kind of madness
that creeps up on you in middle age
where you you begin to savor how subtle
those things were and it was a walk past
but even that I noticed and then I
turned around and looked over my
shoulder and she had indeed turned all
the way around you know her whole body
and was looking at me like yeah to her
it was obvious that her just just by
looking at me and smiling and laughing
wherever she comes from and then
probably she's thinking of being at a
bar or so it's not a bar it's a gym it's
not a bar I'm not there to meet women
I'm not hey I'm and she is a very
good-looking girl I'm sure that her
experience in her culture is that all it
takes is to smile at a man like that and
again like I say she opens the door a
little bit she expects the man to come
and kick the door open you know like she
expects all men or all unmarried men to
respond to that kind of very mild
suggestion that she's interested in
talking to you by running over and and
you know sparking something up so anyway
I don't know I mean if you're actually
at a bar or if I had a singles event or
even a coffee shop um you know she's
probably not wrong that's her culture
that's where she comes from and that's
what she's about but from my perspective
it's like you know she's got a pretty
face but I she's just another pretty
face I have no
the thought to have no reason to be
interest in their weight but anyways
this is another minor thing that
reminded me of all these kind of aspects
of Chinese culture that surround me so
so act so again this is cool i can i can
respond so Ashton says good move don't
gain game of the gym so this relates to
another piece of advice I gave someone
here on you now just a couple days ago
but you know we had a woman on who was a
lesbian I just in the in the crowd in
him among my fans and she at first
didn't mention she was lesbian but she
said there was someone she had a crush
on at work and the person she had a
crush on at work she was hesitant to try
to initiate a relationship because it
was at the workplace and I compared it
to the gym I said to her actually the
problem with the workplace isn't
initiating one relationship the problem
is you can only ever initiate one
relationship so I say the same thing
about the gym at my gym if I try to date
one of the employees that's okay never
too never three if you try to initiate a
relationship with three different women
who all work at the same gym then you're
perceived as the guy who's trying to
sleep with everybody right or the guy
who's trying to talk to you know was
trying to spark things up with every
employees you know you can do it with
one period and I mean at the workplace
in the workplace is like the gym is a
workplace I mean for the employees it is
their workplace remember if I take a
girl out on a date from the gym all the
other employees are going to know that
and they're all going to remember me as
the guy who went on a date with Tina and
they're all gonna remember Tina as the
girl who went on a date with the with
the white guy with the bald white guy or
whatever you know what I'm saying so
that's that's it right
yeah just laughing we got it we got it
we had a good joke there in the in the
comment section that is not not worth
translating into video in podcast uh
this is good though alright so my point
was that the workplace in these things
these things cast a long shadow um so I
think if you're going to hit on one
percent your gym that's a big decision
and don't get into plural don't get in
numbers not at the same gym like for
real because if you think about it if
you if you have a relationship with just
one employee at the gym whether it goes
well or goes badly that's already your
reason for you to quit and go to a new
gym because if you're if you keep going
there let's say you just go on three
dates with someone who's an employee at
your gym really you should quit and go
to the gym because you're up for
workplace you're up her whole
the whole dynamics of how she relates to
the other employees how she relates to
the other customers the other people
training you don't want to bring that
energy into that room right so go get a
new gym so in that sense it's high risk
high stakes and there are big
consequences for just sparking up one
romance at the gym and you can't get
into two or three so that's my response
to that i'm not i don't think i'm not
totally opposed to meeting someone at
the workplace i'm not totally opposed to
meeting some of the gym it's got to be
some one one not two not three if you
want two or three different yoga
instructors go to two or three different
gyms can't be at the same gym cannot
because they all got to work with each
other to right and at one point the
short woman and the toll woman they were
both interested in me and I didn't know
if they were talking to each other or
what right so that's also weird it's
like okay is there two women at this gym
and they kind of know each other or so
what are they saying to each other about
me anyway um a long time previous the
short woman so the short woman was the
one I really had the crush on as has
already been discussed at some length
here and you know the short woman at one
point I did go up to her and give her a
note which was totally not personal and
what the note was was of just to fold it
up
the poster it's been mentioned on
youtube before mentioning you know
before this poster saying that I was
looking for a language exchange partner
and at that time I thought the short
woman I thought she spoke pretty good
English this is apparently a complete
illusion today she didn't seem to be
able to say anything in English any
other been a couple of different times
when the short woman when she really got
flustered you know she like again she
just seemed interested me and seemed
flustered but I hadn't helped I mean you
know is what it is as I've already said
in very sure you know I did basically
lose interest in her at one point but
there was a point at which I was very
interested in her and you know at least
she was interested in talking to me you
know doesn't mean doesn't mean anything
more than that I don't i'm not an ego
trip but one went the other but anyway
so I go up her tour today and I have
this letter folded up as I've already
said this letter and it said on the
front so it's folded up but even its
folded form it says in Chinese like this
is a letter of appreciation like this is
a letter of thanks like giving thanks to
the gym so it's very obvious it's not a
love letter it's very obvious it's not
proposition but it was really you could
really see the minute I walked up to her
and she seemed to just be hanging out
with a friend of the gym like she was
she wasn't exercising she wasn't doing
anything so at first I thought is this a
bad time but I sounds like uh no okay
that's actually good time so I walk over
cuz she's doing nothing she's just
chatting with someone and I said hey you
know uh you know and give it letter I
didn't say much more than say hey look
you can read this letter yourself and if
you think it's more appropriate you can
give it to your boss I can give it to
the the owner of the gym whatever but
she's pretty much the boss there I she's
one of the bosses whatever um but it was
so funny you know you could see you know
she was really flustered and concerned
she hadn't read the letter yet she'd
know I said and this kind of thing and
it was this really weird period of time
in the gym where she had the letter and
she'll go okay and she kind of put it
away right away you don't know what
she's imagining or what she's thinking
and what she didn't read it I mean like
most gyms that set up in a word
a-and I start working out I start
lifting weights and doing push-ups and
doing so the stuff and she's you know
looking around the corner at me and you
know very very human very peculiar
situation and you know oh we're talking
about leather shoes before I mean like
in terms of traditional Chinese culture
if I really wanted to initiate a
relationship with this woman the thing
to do would be to buy her an expensive
leather purse that's 2060 try as normal
Chinese culture and the really up
thing is because women here including
women who hit on me women who try to
stir with women avoid admitting that
they have a boyfriend Oh or that they
have a husband even even if she had a
boyfriend she would accept the purse and
she would show it off from her boyfriend
say hey hey this hey that's handsome
foreigner I said your crush on me he
bought me this purse I mean there's so
many aspects of Chinese culture I'm
never gonna participate in in a sense
that's why I feel so positively about
Chinese culture is just that most of the
stuff I dislike is not part of my life
in any way so anyway again this is the
kind of thing you really get into a
middle-aged is you know reading emotions
and the look in the eyes and the you
know the tone of voice and these weird
suggestions but then I don't know for
like 20 minutes or something she hasn't
read the letter but it's funny because
for a couple of months now I'd say more
than more than one maybe two months you
know I haven't been interested her she
has been trusted me I i I'm a beginning
the number of months wrong but there was
a time not so many months ago when I was
really interested in her and as I said
trouble reading her but you know she was
at least interesting talking to me and
she responded in the very flustered way
and you know there was a there was
something going on but anyway months so
many months have gone past that's
another interesting thing about this I
mean I think so many people they get a
crush on somebody and then they leave
town or circumstances change but this
situation where like she and I have been
seeing each other in skin tight clothing
every day for six months that's pretty
weird like we've been making eye contact
with each other in nearly nude outfits I
mean she wears spandex she was
incredibly revealing clothing every day
and like again back when there was more
interesting a couple months ago you know
whenever least everybody oh hey what's
up yeah you know a little chitchat but
like never heard now you know whatever
it's a gym you don't want to you
know but anyway just was funny because
it seemed like suddenly all of her
behavior you know she was suddenly so
alert and looking at me interested me
and so on now obviously at some point
you know she stopped what she was doing
and went into her office and actually
read the letter right now I have to
imagine it came as a surprise to her
what this letter said because the letter
is not hitting on her not at all right
and again I mean I don't know like a
culturally a lot of Chinese women they
have a role they want you to play and
either you're gonna play that role or
they don't want to hear it and that
actually fits into if you guys some
earlier video talking about the booty
call messages at 2am there are a lot of
Chinese women who do not want to meet me
for coffee who only want to meet me
actually not for coffee you know what I
mean and I think that's part of it also
is like all the stuff that maybe makes
me interesting or appealing to a Western
woman all the complications like oh this
is what I study this is like you know
this is my research this is my
engagement with animal rights and
veganism just stuff that makes you human
stuff that makes you interesting a lot
of the Chinese women respond to that
with like yeah yeah yeah I don't want to
know Nick yeah yeah that's all the stuff
I'm not gonna hear about I'm talking to
deal with I'm gonna call you at to him
you know they have some role
preconceived for you
and you're going to play that role now
another thing in terms of urban 21st
century Chinese culture a lot of women
will basically force the relationship to
be like a one-night stand even if that
says a prelude to transitioning to a
meaningful relationship so I'm not
hating the player of the game just
saying culturally that's kind of like
the exact opposite of what we kind of
try to go for in Western culture I think
in Western culture what a lot of people
want to avoid is feeling like it's a one
night stand a lot of people want to
avoid the feeling that you're disposable
or easily replaced especially the
beginning of the relationship but in a
sense of thing you could say a lot of
Chinese culture embraces the one night
stand and then it's like the one-night
stand may or may not be a gateway into
them dealing with or even acknowledging
the other complexities of who you are
your research your job the fact that
you're vegan or whatever else right
whatever would make you a good or bad
boyfriend anyway anyway um so I only
imagine maybe she felt some mix of like
relief and disappointment when she got
to her office and read this letter and
realized that this was not me confessing
my undying love for anything Oh camera
is out of focus a little bit with uh
Mordy get on it get the camera back and
forth focus more tea um tech support you
know um and she came out and she said
you know but thanks to me in chinese and
she apparently she seemed to not be able
to speak English at all you know
previously she'd spoken English and
again it was funny because one of the
reasons why I think she she thought the
letter was a big deal this handwritten
letter was that the first time I gave
her something on paper which is a
mention was actually the poster of me um
it's just the poster explaining that I'm
looking for language exchange partners
I'm looking for people looking for
someone who wants to practice their
English and I want to purchase my
Chinese which could have been her and
said the time she at least pretended she
could speak English I really don't like
that the camera is out of focus but I
want to
so not too mature um you know I remember
she read that with the other staff which
is normal so like you know she had it
open in front of the other staff and the
other people you know came over and read
over shoulder and the reddit together
and you know passed around who's totally
appropriate it's fun but everyone looked
at it and this time I'm a note she saw
it it was a big deal she put it away she
hid it away and you know none of the
other staff saw it right um and again I
wasn't doing this to hit on her but this
letter did include those two photographs
of me with my shirt off that oh you guys
have seen the same photographs that I
put up here on YouTube just the other
day you know showing the shape I'm in
because that was what what the letter
was about anyway she came out and she
told me that um you know she's gonna put
my my photo on their poster so you know
they've got like a poster for their
their testimonials their success stories
and they're gonna use gonna use some
aspect of my story and they're gonna
give me some kind of prize they're gonna
give me I think like a like a like I
guess like a jacket like this that has
their logo on it so you know to thank me
for my testimonial they're gonna do some
stuff like this alright cool I guess I
officially I guess I officially endorse
your gym uh you know it's cute the more
I wanted to draw to this story is is
twofold you know um thanks Marty thanks
morning thanks for thanks for helping
out i think the camera just came into
focus to appropriately enough you know
on the one hand there's just this kind
of overriding issue of middle age and of
i mean look this along with the
relationship the non relationship i just
had with this woman who I met at the
train station on their last day here
blah blah blah so I took her to the
train station a lot of you guys remember
that story some of you won't but I mean
it's funny but I mean I guess what's
rewarding about these things is the
feeling that you're learning from the
experience and at age 38 I do i do still
feel that I'm learning from these
experiences we're doing self interesting
you know but I mean it's some you know
it is also this really it's this strange
madness of middle age where you almost
you just sent seem to appreciate more
this range of very subtle emotions
emotions that you might have ignored as
a teenager or scoffed at in your 20s or
you really want to revel in the sort of
subtle uncertainties of these situations
as they as they unfold and of course the
other big conclusion for me here I mean
you know when I first when I first came
here to China I remember saying to my
own teacher very bluntly and very
explicitly you know I never want to
marry a chinese woman I never even one
of a Chinese girlfriend I really do not
want to be part of this culture in that
way and in this monologue you have
probably already heard just in passing
many many other reasons why I felt so
strongly in felt so certain I don't want
a Chinese girlfriend I don't want to
Chinese wife the Chinese culture is
really just not compatible with what I'm
about in that way although as I've said
before there are many many things i like
about Chinese woman I sorry there are
many many things i like about Chinese
culture there are many things I like
about being uh being an intellectual
being a scholar being someone who cares
about history and politics in Chinese
culture there many things is a good
about being vegan in Chinese culture
there are many many things i like about
Chinese culture but I do not want to
marry into Chinese culture and I don't
even want to date I really don't I mean
I don't is mentioned I don't ever want
to buy someone uh I don't want to buy
someone a purse that's ridiculous to me
and I don't want it you guys heard this
man was a hilarious video with me
complaining about getting the
booty call messages at 2am I don't want
we Jesus Christ I don't want to get the
coal I don't want to respond to the call
I don't want to show up at a hotel at
2am to hook up with a stranger Jesus and
none of those would anyway oh yeah so
much and by the way I got another email
again actually from a lesbian of your
different lesbian not the one who was
mentioned before there was another
lesbian who wrote to me saying that it
was striking her that video she said
that specific video about the 2am booty
coals and all that stuff she said it's
amazing that her experience as a white
Western lesbian in China is the same the
like of a bunch of things I complained
about in that video she said the
one-sided conversations and the booty
calls and people trying to sleep with
you but they're not willing to have
coffee with you and like where it's it's
the exact opposite of our expectations
of like like the expectation I want to
get to know you and feel I can trust you
before I see what it's like note the
opposite it looks like though let's
let's let's remain strangers this kind
of thing that was interesting those it
was a white lesbian perspective on
dating in China and saying wow you know
a lot of the same to a striking extent a
lot of the same problems and she ended
it by saying like hooray hooray for
gender equality because apparently the
lesbian situation is the same as the
situation from men that was that was
interested in here
I guess I can wrap it up by saying you
know when i showed my teacher that
handwritten letter you know for
corrections to correct any mistakes i
made the grammar or what have you um
sure comment was just you know it's it's
really sad let and she was really just
referring to last sentence which is true
the letter ended by saying you know this
is now the end of my time and couldn't
mang I've been here for so many months
and you know this is a special time in
my life I said at the end the letter
this Jim the io obviously I can only
express myself imperfectly in Chinese
anyway this gym will become a happy
memory for me you know um while I lived
in kunming during this time in my life
studying Chinese this jim was the only
was the only pleasure in my life it was
the only thing I it was the only thing I
had to enjoy you know and it's true in
the original in the original Chinese um
that is a little bit bittersweet at best
you know the the connotations of the of
the particular words that that come
across
there was one guy here who you know he
pitched a little bit of a fit he was he
was an idiot I despised them it was a
there was an American guy here he was
one of the other students and I don't
remember exactly how the conversation
started but he said something to me like
but that's why you love learning Chinese
right like but that's why you want to
learn Chinese something about Chinese
being wonderful and ascribing to me that
this is why I want to learn Chinese I
know that's not why I want to learn
Chinese is it I don't want to learn
Chinese at all which was true then and
it's true now this is not what I chose
in life this is in many ways
fundamentally the opposite of what is
chosen life this is everything that I
wanted to avoid being forced on me by
circumstances beyond my control I don't
want to be living in China I don't want
to be learning Chinese I do want to be
studying languages but Chinese is the
wrong language and another conversation
with someone who was a Tibetan and I
remember this Tibetan was talking to me
and you know excited about you know my
knowledge of politics in history but of
course Buddhism if you guys watch the
channel you know I know a lot about
Buddhism and I had to say this Tibetan
look like I know we have lot to talk
about but my whole life is about
avoiding too bad I want nothing to do
with Tibet I want nothing to Tibetan
politics I want nothing to do with
Tibetan Buddhism I don't want to study
Tibet this language like you don't get
it like I know I know I know more than
the average Westerner both the bed I do
obviously way more of you know than the
average Westerner but it's not my heart
of expertise top immigrant interest is
the opposite so you know but to come
back to that anecdote you know I
remember so sitting there at the
breakfast table with the other students
I just said it's got a hundred percent
bluntly
I don't want to be learning Chinese at
all but I'm born with a Canadian
passport and I'm stuck with it and
because I'm Canadian I ultimately did
not have the option to study any of the
languages I was passionate about
learning I was forced again and again to
sacrifice all of my hopes all of my
aspirations all of my dreams all of my
career plans because of the incredibly
poor quality of the education system in
Canada and the incredibly narrow
possible career paths open to me that
wouldn't be the same if I were born a
French citizen it wouldn't be the same
for born an American citizen or even a
German citizen but because I'm Canadian
I couldn't continue with Lao I couldn't
continue with Cambodian I couldn't
continue with Burmese I couldn't
continue with sin alize I couldn't
continue with ty I couldn't continue
with Cree I couldn't continue with a jib
way and those two I feel the most
bitterly as the Canadian Korean ajiboye
being indigenous to Canada everything I
spent years and years of my life
developing expertise in not even to
mention pally I had to sacrifice and I
had to start with this language that I
don't merely lack interest in that I
actively don't want to learn that I
never wanted to learn that I chose again
and again to avoid learning this is
everything I wanted to avoid in my life
and I've been forced to accept it that's
why I'm living now in China I in says at
the time but you know also I didn't even
want to learn Chinese in China I wanted
to continue in Canada I was getting a
university degree in Canada but I
couldn't do that for the same reason
because of the abysmally low quality of
my education in Canada so there are a
lot of things I appreciate about Chinese
culture there are a lot of things I
appreciate about China
it's always somewhat hilarious to me
when people think i have a kind of
glamorized view of Chinese culture or
China because it's the opposite um but
I'm here learning a language I don't
want to learn doing a job I don't want
to do in a sense developing a career in
an area of expertise that don't want to
have in the surreal circumstances of my
slow motion divorce unfolding in France
we think also my slow motion core case
unfolding in Thailand you know all these
other bizarre things in framing the
situation and I'm sacrificing so much in
my life to learn a language I don't want
to learn and to learn to pretend to be a
part of a culture I don't even want to
pretend to be a part of I don't want to
marry into this culture I don't want to
date in this culture and you know the
guy I'd said this to at that breakfast
he was really offended and he was an
ignorant ass white guy who converted to
who converted to Buddhism to zen
buddhism the worst kind of Buddhism he
was an ignorant ass white boy who
converted to Buddhism and who obviously
had glorified and glamorized notions
about Chinese culture and he took it up
with me later to like at another time I
went out to lunch with him and he sat
down he was like well it's very obvious
you don't like chinese like as a
language like you don't say yeah you
want me to lie to you you only to
pretend this is a special or wonderful
language to me it's not that's so it's
just another language and it's in many
ways and especially oh and especially
terrible language and it's not a
language that leads to any kind of a
bright future for me or for my daughter
it doesn't lead to any kind of
employment in Canada it doesn't lead to
any kind of master's degree or PhD or
anything else in many ways here in China
I know
day after day I'm digging my own grave
I'm destroying any possibility of me
having a positive future and I would be
earning more money if I got a job at
starbucks or as a waiter or stalking the
store shelves at a grocery store or
doing any other working at a gas station
in Canada rather than what i'm doing
here in china even though what i'm doing
here in China may be more intellectually
pretentious or may seem more impressive
of my resume in some ways so I mean
that's the incredibly grim reality
surrounding and underlining that one
line in that hand written letter that I
gave to the girl at the gym today that
during this time in my life you know
going to your gym was my only pleasant
distraction was my only pleasure